README.md, before:

# threejs-modern-app

> Boilerplate and utils for a fullscreen Three.js app

[![demo](screenshots/demo.png)](https://marcofugaro.github.io/threejs-modern-app/)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _assets thanks to [Poliigon](https://www.poliigon.com/) and [Blender](https://www.blender.org/)_

It is inspired from [mattdesl](https://twitter.com/mattdesl)'s [threejs-app](https://github.com/mattdesl/threejs-app), but it was rewritten and simplified using **ES6** syntax rather than node, making it easier to read and well commented, so it can be easily customized to fit your needs.


### [DEMO](https://marcofugaro.github.io/threejs-modern-app/?debug)

### [Example of production scale project](https://github.com/marcofugaro/shrimpcat/)

## Features
- All the **Three.js boilerplate code is tucked away** in a file, the exported `WebGLApp` is easily configurable from the outside, for example you can enable postprocessing, [orbit controls](https://github.com/Jam3/orbit-controls), [FPS stats](https://github.com/mrdoob/stats.js/), a [control-panel](https://github.com/freeman-lab/control-panel) and use the save screenshot functionality. It also has built-in support for [Cannon.js](https://github.com/schteppe/cannon.js) and [Tween.js](https://github.com/tweenjs/tween.js/). [[Read more](#webglapp)]
- A **scalable Three.js component structure** where each component is a class which extends `THREE.Group`, so you can add any object to it. The class also has update, resize, and touch hooks. [[Read more](#component-structure)]
- An **asset manager** which handles the preloading of `.gltf` models, images, audios, videos and can be easily extended to support other files. It also automatically uploads a texture to the GPU, loads cube env maps or parses equirectangular projection images. [[Read more](#asset-manager)]
- global `window.DEBUG` flag which is true when the url contains `?debug` as a query parameter. So you can enable **debug mode** both locally and in production. [[Read more](#debug-mode)]
- [glslify](https://github.com/glslify/glslify) to import shaders from `node_modules`. [[Read more](#glslify)]
- Hot reload not enabled by default. [[Read more](#hot-reload)]
- Modern and customizable development tools such as webpack, babel, eslint, prettier and browserslist.
- Beautiful console output:

![console screenshots](screenshots/console.png)

> **NOTE**: [brew](https://brew.sh/) is required for the build command output

## WebGLApp

```js
import WebGLApp from './lib/WebGLApp'

const webgl = new WebGLApp({ ...options })
```

The WebGLApp class contains all the code needed for Three.js to run a scene, it is always the same so it makes sense to hide it in a standalone file and don't think about it.

You can see an example configuration here:

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/4af53b2748e2ea923f2e4482c657c894b2b848b3/boilerplate/src/index.js#L18-L52

You can pass the class the options you would pass to the [THREE.WebGLRenderer](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/renderers/WebGLRenderer), and also some more options:

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `background` | `'#000'` | The background of the scene. |
| `backgroundAlpha` | 1 | The transparency of the background. |
| `maxPixelRatio` | 2 | The clamped pixelRatio, for performance reasons. |
| `maxDeltaTime` | 1 / 30 | Clamp the `dt` to prevent stepping anything too far forward. |
| `postprocessing` | false | Enable Three.js postprocessing. The composer gets exposed as `webgl.composer`. |
| `showFps` | false | Show the [stats.js](https://github.com/mrdoob/stats.js/) fps counter |
| `orbitControls` | undefined | Accepts an object with the [orbit-controls](https://github.com/Jam3/orbit-controls) options. Exposed as `webgl.orbitControls`. |
| `panelInputs` | undefined | Accepts an array with the [control-panel](https://github.com/freeman-lab/control-panel) inputs. Exposed ad `webgl.panel`. |
| `world` | undefined | Accepts an instance of the [cannon.js](https://github.com/schteppe/cannon.js) world (`new CANNON.World()`). Exposed as `webgl.world`. |
| `tween` | undefined | Accepts the [TWEEN.js](https://github.com/tweenjs/tween.js/) library (`TWEEN`). Exposed as `webgl.tween`. |

The `webgl` instance will contain all the Three.js elements such as `webgl.scene`, `webgl.renderer`, `webgl.camera` or `webgl.canvas`. It also exposes some methods:

### webgl.saveScreenshot({ ...options })

Save a screenshot of the application as a png.

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `width` | 2560 | The width of the screenshot |
| `height` | 1440 | The height of the screenshot |
| `fileName` | `'image.png'` | The filename, can be only .png |

### webgl.onUpdate((dt, time) => {})

Subscribe to the update `requestAnimationFrame` without having to create a component.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `dt` | The seconds elapsed from the latest frame, in a 60fps application it's `0.016s` (aka `16ms`) |
| `time` | The time in seconds elapsed from when the animation loop starts |

## Component structure

Rather than writing all of your Three.js app in one file instruction after instruction, you can split your app into "Three.js components". This makes it easier to manage the app as it grows. Here is a basic component:

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/scene/Box.js

A Three.js component is a class which extends [`THREE.Group`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/objects/Group) (an alias for [`THREE.Object3D`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/core/Object3D)) and subsequently inherits its properties and methods, such as `this.add(someMesh)` or `this.position` or `this.rotation`. [Here is a full list](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/core/Object3D).

After having instantiated the class, you can add it directly to the scene.

```js
// attach it to the scene so you can access it in other components
webgl.scene.birds = new Birds({ webgl })
webgl.scene.add(webgl.scene.birds)
```

The class supports some hooks, which get called once the element is in the scene:

### update(dt, time) {}

Called each frame of the animation loop of the application. Gets called by the main `requestAnimationFrame`.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `dt` | The seconds elapsed from the latest frame, in a 60fps application it's `0.016s` (aka `16ms`). |
| `time` | The time in seconds elapsed from when the animation loop starts. |

### resize({ width, height, pixelRatio }) {}

Called each time the window has been resized.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `width` | The window width. |
| `height` | The window height. |
| `pixelRatio` | The application pixelRatio, it's usually `window.devicePixelRatio` but clamped with `webgl.maxPixelRatio`. |


### onPointerDown(event, [x, y]) {}

Called on the `mousedown`/`touchstart` (aka the newer `pointerdown`) event on the canvas. It uses [touches.js](https://github.com/Jam3/touches) behind the scenes.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `event` | The native event. |
| `position` | An array containing the `x` and the `y` position from the top left of the window. |

### onPointerMove(event, [x, y]) {}

Called on the `mousemove`/`touchmove` (aka the newer `pointermove`) event on the canvas. It uses [touches.js](https://github.com/Jam3/touches) behind the scenes.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `event` | The native event. |
| `position` | An array containing the `x` and the `y` position from the top left of the window. |

### onPointerUp(event, [x, y]) {}

Called on the `mouseup`/`touchend` (aka the newer `pointerup`) event on the canvas. It uses [touches.js](https://github.com/Jam3/touches) behind the scenes.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `event` | The native event. |
| `position` | An array containing the `x` and the `y` position from the top left of the window. |

## Asset Manager

The Asseet Manager handles the preloading of all the assets needed to run the scene, you use it like this:

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/52cbbb330419ce830eb4cc8c9ef06584f21d1bd7/boilerplate/src/scene/Suzanne.js#L12-L42

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/d499b9c4ff6f6dc8f8fb1607aeef6b41c6e4887d/boilerplate/src/index.js#L63

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/d499b9c4ff6f6dc8f8fb1607aeef6b41c6e4887d/boilerplate/src/scene/Suzanne.js#L53s

In detail, first you queue the asset you want to preload in the component where you will use it

```js
import assets from '../lib/AssetManager'

const key = assets.queue({
  url: 'assets/model.gltf',
  type: 'gltf',
})
```

Then you import the component in the `index.js` so that code gets executed

```js
import Component from './scene/Component'
```

And then you start the queue assets loading promise, always in the `index.js`

```js
assets.load({ renderer: webgl.renderer }).then(() => {
  // assets loaded! we can show the canvas
})
```

After that, you init the component and use the asset in the component like this

```js
const modelGltf = assets.get(key)
```

These are all the exposed methods:

### assets.queue({ url, type, ...others })

Queue an asset to be downloaded later with `assets.load()`.

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `url` |  | The url of the asset relative to the `public/` folder. |
| `type` | autodetected | The type of the asset, can be either `gltf`, `image`, `svg`, `texture`, `env-map`, `json`, `audio` or `video`. If omitted it will be discerned from the asset extension. |
| `equirectangular` | false | Only if you set `type: 'env-map'`, you can pass `equirectangular: true` if you have a single [equirectangular image](https://www.google.com/search?q=equirectangular+image&tbm=isch) rather than the six squared subimages. |
| ...others |  | Other options that get passed to [loadEnvMap](https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/lib/loadEnvMap.js) or [loadTexture](https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/lib/loadTexture.js) when the type is either `env-map` or `texture`. |

Returns a `key` that later you can use with `assets.get()`.

### assets.load({ renderer })

Load all the assets previously queued.

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `renderer` |  | The WebGLRenderer of your application, exposed as `webgl.renderer`. |

### assets.loadSingle({ url, type, renderer, ...others })

Load a single asset without having to pass through the queue. Useful if you want to lazy-load some assets after the application has started. Usually the assets that are not needed immediately.

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `renderer` |  | The WebGLRenderer of your application, exposed as `webgl.renderer`. |
| `url` |  | The url of the asset relative to the `public/` folder. |
| `type` | autodetected | The type of the asset, can be either `gltf`, `image`, `svg`, `texture`, `env-map`, `json`, `audio` or `video`. If omitted it will be discerned from the asset extension. |
| `equirectangular` | false | Only if you set `type: 'env-map'`, you can pass `equirectangular: true` if you have a single [equirectangular image](https://www.google.com/search?q=equirectangular+image&tbm=isch) rather than the six squared subimages. |
| ...others |  | Other options that get passed to [loadEnvMap](https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/lib/loadEnvMap.js) or [loadTexture](https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/lib/loadTexture.js) when the type is either `env-map` or `texture`. |

Returns a `key` that later you can use with `assets.get()`.

### assets.addProgressListener((progress) => {})

Pass a function that gets called each time an assets finishes downloading. The argument `progress` goes from 0 to 1, with 1 being every asset queued has been downloaded.

### assets.get(key)

Retrieve an asset previously loaded with `assets.load()` or `assets.loadSingle()`.

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `key` |  | The key returned from `assets.queue()` or `assets.loadSingle()`. It corresponds to the url of the asset. |

## Debug mode

Often you want to show the fps count or debug helpers such as the [SpotLightHelper](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/helpers/SpotLightHelper) only when you're developing or debugging.

A really manageable way is to have a global `window.DEBUG` constant which is true only if you append `?debug` to your url, for example `http://localhost:8080/?debug` or even in production like `https://example.com/?debug`.

This is done [here](https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/4af53b2748e2ea923f2e4482c657c894b2b848b3/boilerplate/src/index.js#L13) in just one line:

```js
window.DEBUG = window.location.search.includes('debug')
```

You could also add more global constants by just using more query-string parameters, like this `?debug&fps`.

## glslify

You can import shaders from `node_modules` with glslify, here is an example that uses [glsl-vignette](https://github.com/TyLindberg/glsl-vignette):

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/scene/shaders/vignette.frag

For a list of shaders you can import check out [stack.gl packages list](http://stack.gl/packages/), more info on [glslify's readme](https://github.com/glslify/glslify).

## Hot reload

TODO

Commit message:

⚙️ Replace control-panel with controls-gui

README.md, after:

# threejs-modern-app

> Boilerplate and utils for a fullscreen Three.js app

[![demo](screenshots/demo.png)](https://marcofugaro.github.io/threejs-modern-app/)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _assets thanks to [Poliigon](https://www.poliigon.com/) and [Blender](https://www.blender.org/)_

It is inspired from [mattdesl](https://twitter.com/mattdesl)'s [threejs-app](https://github.com/mattdesl/threejs-app), but it was rewritten and simplified using **ES6** syntax rather than node, making it easier to read and well commented, so it can be easily customized to fit your needs.


### [DEMO](https://marcofugaro.github.io/threejs-modern-app/?debug)

### [Example of production scale project](https://github.com/marcofugaro/shrimpcat/)

## Features
- All the **Three.js boilerplate code is tucked away** in a file, the exported `WebGLApp` is easily configurable from the outside, for example you can enable postprocessing, [orbit controls](https://github.com/Jam3/orbit-controls), [FPS stats](https://github.com/mrdoob/stats.js/), a [controls-gui](https://github.com/rreusser/controls-gui) and use the save screenshot functionality. It also has built-in support for [Cannon.js](https://github.com/schteppe/cannon.js) and [Tween.js](https://github.com/tweenjs/tween.js/). [[Read more](#webglapp)]
- A **scalable Three.js component structure** where each component is a class which extends `THREE.Group`, so you can add any object to it. The class also has update, resize, and touch hooks. [[Read more](#component-structure)]
- An **asset manager** which handles the preloading of `.gltf` models, images, audios, videos and can be easily extended to support other files. It also automatically uploads a texture to the GPU, loads cube env maps or parses equirectangular projection images. [[Read more](#asset-manager)]
- global `window.DEBUG` flag which is true when the url contains `?debug` as a query parameter. So you can enable **debug mode** both locally and in production. [[Read more](#debug-mode)]
- [glslify](https://github.com/glslify/glslify) to import shaders from `node_modules`. [[Read more](#glslify)]
- Hot reload not enabled by default. [[Read more](#hot-reload)]
- Modern and customizable development tools such as webpack, babel, eslint, prettier and browserslist.
- Beautiful console output:

![console screenshots](screenshots/console.png)

> **NOTE**: [brew](https://brew.sh/) is required for the build command output

## WebGLApp

```js
import WebGLApp from './lib/WebGLApp'

const webgl = new WebGLApp({ ...options })
```

The WebGLApp class contains all the code needed for Three.js to run a scene, it is always the same so it makes sense to hide it in a standalone file and don't think about it.

You can see an example configuration here:

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/4af53b2748e2ea923f2e4482c657c894b2b848b3/boilerplate/src/index.js#L18-L52

You can pass the class the options you would pass to the [THREE.WebGLRenderer](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/renderers/WebGLRenderer), and also some more options:

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `background` | `'#000'` | The background of the scene. |
| `backgroundAlpha` | 1 | The transparency of the background. |
| `maxPixelRatio` | 2 | The clamped pixelRatio, for performance reasons. |
| `maxDeltaTime` | 1 / 30 | Clamp the `dt` to prevent stepping anything too far forward. |
| `postprocessing` | false | Enable Three.js postprocessing. The composer gets exposed as `webgl.composer`. |
| `showFps` | false | Show the [stats.js](https://github.com/mrdoob/stats.js/) fps counter |
| `orbitControls` | undefined | Accepts an object with the [orbit-controls](https://github.com/Jam3/orbit-controls) options. Exposed as `webgl.orbitControls`. |
| `controls` | undefined | Accepts an object with the [controls-gui](https://github.com/rreusser/controls-gui) configuration. Exposed ad `webgl.controls`. |
| `hideControls` | false | Set this to `true` to hide the controls-gui panel. |
| `world` | undefined | Accepts an instance of the [cannon.js](https://github.com/schteppe/cannon.js) world (`new CANNON.World()`). Exposed as `webgl.world`. |
| `tween` | undefined | Accepts the [TWEEN.js](https://github.com/tweenjs/tween.js/) library (`TWEEN`). Exposed as `webgl.tween`. |

The `webgl` instance will contain all the Three.js elements such as `webgl.scene`, `webgl.renderer`, `webgl.camera` or `webgl.canvas`. It also exposes some methods:

### webgl.saveScreenshot({ ...options })

Save a screenshot of the application as a png.

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `width` | 2560 | The width of the screenshot |
| `height` | 1440 | The height of the screenshot |
| `fileName` | `'image.png'` | The filename, can be only .png |

### webgl.onUpdate((dt, time) => {})

Subscribe to the update `requestAnimationFrame` without having to create a component.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `dt` | The seconds elapsed from the latest frame, in a 60fps application it's `0.016s` (aka `16ms`) |
| `time` | The time in seconds elapsed from when the animation loop starts |

## Component structure

Rather than writing all of your Three.js app in one file instruction after instruction, you can split your app into "Three.js components". This makes it easier to manage the app as it grows. Here is a basic component:

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/scene/Box.js

A Three.js component is a class which extends [`THREE.Group`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/objects/Group) (an alias for [`THREE.Object3D`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/core/Object3D)) and subsequently inherits its properties and methods, such as `this.add(someMesh)` or `this.position` or `this.rotation`. [Here is a full list](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/core/Object3D).

After having instantiated the class, you can add it directly to the scene.

```js
// attach it to the scene so you can access it in other components
webgl.scene.birds = new Birds({ webgl })
webgl.scene.add(webgl.scene.birds)
```

The class supports some hooks, which get called once the element is in the scene:

### update(dt, time) {}

Called each frame of the animation loop of the application. Gets called by the main `requestAnimationFrame`.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `dt` | The seconds elapsed from the latest frame, in a 60fps application it's `0.016s` (aka `16ms`). |
| `time` | The time in seconds elapsed from when the animation loop starts. |

### resize({ width, height, pixelRatio }) {}

Called each time the window has been resized.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `width` | The window width. |
| `height` | The window height. |
| `pixelRatio` | The application pixelRatio, it's usually `window.devicePixelRatio` but clamped with `webgl.maxPixelRatio`. |


### onPointerDown(event, [x, y]) {}

Called on the `mousedown`/`touchstart` (aka the newer `pointerdown`) event on the canvas. It uses [touches.js](https://github.com/Jam3/touches) behind the scenes.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `event` | The native event. |
| `position` | An array containing the `x` and the `y` position from the top left of the window. |

### onPointerMove(event, [x, y]) {}

Called on the `mousemove`/`touchmove` (aka the newer `pointermove`) event on the canvas. It uses [touches.js](https://github.com/Jam3/touches) behind the scenes.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `event` | The native event. |
| `position` | An array containing the `x` and the `y` position from the top left of the window. |

### onPointerUp(event, [x, y]) {}

Called on the `mouseup`/`touchend` (aka the newer `pointerup`) event on the canvas. It uses [touches.js](https://github.com/Jam3/touches) behind the scenes.

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `event` | The native event. |
| `position` | An array containing the `x` and the `y` position from the top left of the window. |

## Asset Manager

The Asseet Manager handles the preloading of all the assets needed to run the scene, you use it like this:

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/52cbbb330419ce830eb4cc8c9ef06584f21d1bd7/boilerplate/src/scene/Suzanne.js#L12-L42

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/d499b9c4ff6f6dc8f8fb1607aeef6b41c6e4887d/boilerplate/src/index.js#L63

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/d499b9c4ff6f6dc8f8fb1607aeef6b41c6e4887d/boilerplate/src/scene/Suzanne.js#L53s

In detail, first you queue the asset you want to preload in the component where you will use it

```js
import assets from '../lib/AssetManager'

const key = assets.queue({
  url: 'assets/model.gltf',
  type: 'gltf',
})
```

Then you import the component in the `index.js` so that code gets executed

```js
import Component from './scene/Component'
```

And then you start the queue assets loading promise, always in the `index.js`

```js
assets.load({ renderer: webgl.renderer }).then(() => {
  // assets loaded! we can show the canvas
})
```

After that, you init the component and use the asset in the component like this

```js
const modelGltf = assets.get(key)
```

These are all the exposed methods:

### assets.queue({ url, type, ...others })

Queue an asset to be downloaded later with `assets.load()`.

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `url` |  | The url of the asset relative to the `public/` folder. |
| `type` | autodetected | The type of the asset, can be either `gltf`, `image`, `svg`, `texture`, `env-map`, `json`, `audio` or `video`. If omitted it will be discerned from the asset extension. |
| `equirectangular` | false | Only if you set `type: 'env-map'`, you can pass `equirectangular: true` if you have a single [equirectangular image](https://www.google.com/search?q=equirectangular+image&tbm=isch) rather than the six squared subimages. |
| ...others |  | Other options that get passed to [loadEnvMap](https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/lib/loadEnvMap.js) or [loadTexture](https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/lib/loadTexture.js) when the type is either `env-map` or `texture`. |

Returns a `key` that later you can use with `assets.get()`.

### assets.load({ renderer })

Load all the assets previously queued.

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `renderer` |  | The WebGLRenderer of your application, exposed as `webgl.renderer`. |

### assets.loadSingle({ url, type, renderer, ...others })

Load a single asset without having to pass through the queue. Useful if you want to lazy-load some assets after the application has started. Usually the assets that are not needed immediately.

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `renderer` |  | The WebGLRenderer of your application, exposed as `webgl.renderer`. |
| `url` |  | The url of the asset relative to the `public/` folder. |
| `type` | autodetected | The type of the asset, can be either `gltf`, `image`, `svg`, `texture`, `env-map`, `json`, `audio` or `video`. If omitted it will be discerned from the asset extension. |
| `equirectangular` | false | Only if you set `type: 'env-map'`, you can pass `equirectangular: true` if you have a single [equirectangular image](https://www.google.com/search?q=equirectangular+image&tbm=isch) rather than the six squared subimages. |
| ...others |  | Other options that get passed to [loadEnvMap](https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/lib/loadEnvMap.js) or [loadTexture](https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/lib/loadTexture.js) when the type is either `env-map` or `texture`. |

Returns a `key` that later you can use with `assets.get()`.

### assets.addProgressListener((progress) => {})

Pass a function that gets called each time an assets finishes downloading. The argument `progress` goes from 0 to 1, with 1 being every asset queued has been downloaded.

### assets.get(key)

Retrieve an asset previously loaded with `assets.load()` or `assets.loadSingle()`.

| Option | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `key` |  | The key returned from `assets.queue()` or `assets.loadSingle()`. It corresponds to the url of the asset. |

## Debug mode

Often you want to show the fps count or debug helpers such as the [SpotLightHelper](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/helpers/SpotLightHelper) only when you're developing or debugging.

A really manageable way is to have a global `window.DEBUG` constant which is true only if you append `?debug` to your url, for example `http://localhost:8080/?debug` or even in production like `https://example.com/?debug`.

This is done [here](https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/4af53b2748e2ea923f2e4482c657c894b2b848b3/boilerplate/src/index.js#L13) in just one line:

```js
window.DEBUG = window.location.search.includes('debug')
```

You could also add more global constants by just using more query-string parameters, like this `?debug&fps`.

## glslify

You can import shaders from `node_modules` with glslify, here is an example that uses [glsl-vignette](https://github.com/TyLindberg/glsl-vignette):

https://github.com/marcofugaro/threejs-modern-app/blob/master/boilerplate/src/scene/shaders/vignette.frag

For a list of shaders you can import check out [stack.gl packages list](http://stack.gl/packages/), more info on [glslify's readme](https://github.com/glslify/glslify).

## Hot reload

TODO
